feat (Unity): Updated options (#12636)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/platforms/unity/configuration/options/programmatic-configuration/index.mdx

---
title: Programmatic Configuration

> description: "Learn more about how to configure the SDK programmatically."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Learn more about how to configure the Unity SDK programmatically."
```

```csharp
public override void Configure(SentryUnityOptions options)
{
    // BeforeSend is currently limited to C# code. Native errors - such as crashes in C/C++ code - are getting
    // captured by the native SDKs, but the native SDKs won't invoke this callback.
    options.SetBeforeSend((sentryEvent, _) =>
    {
        if (sentryEvent.Tags.ContainsKey("SomeTag"))
        {
            // Don't send events with a tag "SomeTag" to Sentry
            return null;
        }

        return sentryEvent;
    });

    // Native SDK initialization timing options:
    // Build-time initialization:
    //   + Can capture Unity engine errors
    //   - Options are fixed at build time
    // Runtime initialization:
    //   + Allows dynamic configuration
    //   - May miss some early errors
#if UNITY_ANDROID
    options.AndroidNativeInitializationType = NativeInitializationType.Runtime;
#elif UNITY_IOS
    options.IosNativeInitializationType = NativeInitializationType.Runtime;
#endif
}
```

### Initialize Native SDKs first when targeting iOS or Android

> On mobile, the Unity SDK automatically modifies the generated Xcode and Gradle project to also contain the Cocoa and Java SDK respectively. These SDKs are capable of self-initializing before the Unity engine itself is started. This allows us to capture bugs/crashes of even the engine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On mobile, the Unity SDK automatically modifies the generated Xcode and Gradle project to also contain the Cocoa and Java SDK respectively. These SDKs are capable of self-initializing before the Unity engine itself is started. This allows us to capture bugs/crashes happening within the engine itself.
```
